# Rayleigh_Bernard-Convection-2D

Solving the Rayleigh-Bernard convection in retangular region.

#                                                       Abstract
In this thesis, we built a model of Rayleigh-Benard convection in rectangular region, which is bounded by walls that are impermeable and stress-free. The bottom and top boundaries of our fuild box are maintained at constant temperatures by external heaters and coolers;the bottom boundary temperature is higher than the top boundary temperature by an amount  . Heat diffuses in through the bottom boundary and out through the top boundary. The side boundaries are set to be thermally insulating; that is , there is no heat flow through them. 
The objective of this study is to deal with the influence of the Rayleigh number and the aspect-ratio of the rectangular region on the flow characteristics and heat transfer of Rayleigh-Benard convection. Computer simulation by solving the two-dimensional incompressible Navier-Stokes equation under Boussinesq assumption is performed to study Rayleigh-Benard convection in this region. In this system, we chose a spectral method in the horizontal direction and a finite-difference method in the vertical direction. What’s more, we chose a second-order accurate explicit shceme the Adams-Bashforth time integrationscheme as time discrete method. 
Based on our calculations, two-dimensional velocity, and vorticity and temperature fields can be obtained and analyzed. From the present calculated results, we got a graph of Ra and aspect-ratio, from which we knew how the chosen values of Ra and aspect-ratio affect the pattern and time dependence of the convection. Generally, if the Ra number was fixed, the flow became unstable and formed several recirculation cells as the aspect-ratio increased. Likewise, if the aspect-ratio was fixed, the flow became unstable and had some little patterns as the Ra number largened. At the same time, we also analyzed how the wavenumber affect the maximum velocity of the convection.    
Keywords: Rayleigh-Benard convection, direct numerical simulation , spectral method, Rayleigh number
